Well, we have a table announcement from the Publishing Committee. We'd like to share with you also.
It says we're pleased to inform you of a milestone with the Ramapot project. Our
December 28, 2022, the Town Board of Ramapot made an important decision in favor of the new project at Ramapot.
One aspect of the decision will allow our buildings to be higher than the town's maximum allowed building height of
45 feet or about 14 meters.
Some of the buildings for our project need to have a height of 75 feet or about 23 meters.
Another aspect of the decision allows us to begin clearing the necessary trees to prepare for sightworks and construction.
Now, why is that significant?
Typically, authorities in Ramapot only allow tree clearing after construction approval is given.
We do not expect to receive construction approval until later this year.
The legally permitted season to cut down trees ends in March.
That means without this approval, we would have to wait until November
2023 before we could begin construction activities.
What was the experience like for our brothers who have been working hard to obtain the permits for the project?
What has been the reaction of members of the Ramapot Town Board and other professionals we have worked with?
Let's watch the following video.
This is a huge project.
It's 1.7 million square feet.
It is easily the biggest project that the town of Ramapot has ever seen.
Probably the biggest project that we've seen in Rockham County.
It's enormously complex.
To get an EIS all the way through the process in 18 months would be incredibly aggressive and
very rare that a project is able to hit that.
I mean, I've seen some projects that go for 10 years, which is not ideal, clearly.
So the outcome of the meeting was that there was a very positive discussion.
There was no one who spoke up in opposition to our project.
The town supervisor just recommended that they postpone the decision for another two weeks.
I think it's like anything else that can get frustrating, but I also think it's the best we could do, right?
We're beating the arrows as hard as we can on the ground and it's in your hoax hands.
We've had some disappointing things up to this point and I feel like we've been stronger for it.
We've tried to get a little closer.
And the expectation, like the scripture in Proverbs 13, it talks about expectation of your heart.
Can almost make you sick.
We have felt some pressure and tonight was just a complete relief.
We got together.
We prayed with all the other brothers that have been working so hard on this project.
Then we sat in that room and we just relaxed and we let Jehovah handle the rest.
So tonight, the town board, Ramapot voted on four different actions.
Those actions basically changed the law to enable our project to move ahead.
They changed something called the comprehensive town of the comprehensive plan of the town of Ramapot.
They also enabled a special permit application to go forward.
And then they also scheduled a public hearing later in December, which basically enables some other things about our project to move forward,
such as potentially the removal of trees.
I think, you know, this was a major milestone tonight.
And I think everybody should be really excited that this really allows a project to move forward in the way that was envisioned from the beginning.
We certainly went in with questions and concerns that we wanted addressed.
And the satisfying part is, for my point of view, at least, those questions and concerns were all met and properly.
And more than adequately addressed, my feeling on the project went from skeptical and objective and I'm still always trying to be objective,
but seeing the positive nature of what was proposed and how we could approve this in its final form in a way that would be a positive thing and a credit for the town and for watchtower.
It's really a pleasure working with watchtower.
Always friendly, always very knowledgeable about what you're going after, what you're programming is, what the type of project that you want to do.
And really a lot of dedication to the site itself and the environment, you know, driving, I drive past Patterson's site all the time and it's gorgeous.
And you really maintain your property as it's a pleasure working with you and you're really valued by the communities that you're in.
All those folks that have been working on it should be very proud of the work they've done. They've done a great job.
Everyone has been very honest and forthcoming with their intentions of what they plan to bring here.
You are now going to be our neighbors and welcome to the neighborhood.
We're very excited that you chose our town for this very important site for you and so far it's been a great experience working with you and we look to continue that relationship.
I feel relieved. I feel relieved that after what's almost been three years of work with the town to go through this process to make sure that every box was ticked and every issue addressed, it's finally done and it's produced what our organization needs and it's done it in a way that the community is satisfied.
And we saw that tonight by the fact that there was not one single person speaking out in opposition to the project.
No comments were made that were detrimental to what we've proposed and planned so it was a very easy project for the town board members to embrace and to approve because they weren't dealing with any political opposition.
Some four three states know that Jehovah will treat his loyal one in a special way.
Time it again we are seeing evidence of Jehovah treating us in a special way by moving this project over one hurdle after another. All praise goes to him.
We still have a long way to go and many obstacles to overcome but we are confident that Jehovah will continue to open the way.
We'll keep the Brotherhood updated as this exciting project develops.